/core_services/

├── email/

│ ├── parser/

│ │ ├── subject_parser.py \# Extracts and processes email subjects.

│ │ ├── body_parser.py \# Extracts and processes email body content.

│ │ ├── metadata_extractor.py \# Extracts sender, recipient, and
timestamp metadata.

│ │ └── attachment_handler.py \# Processes email attachments securely.

│ ├── sender.py \# Manages SMTP connections for sending emails.

│ └── receiver.py \# Handles IMAP connections for fetching emails.

├── workflow/

│ ├── rules/

│ │ ├── rule_loader.py \# Loads workflow rules from YAML files.

│ │ ├── rule_validator.py \# Validates rule configurations for
correctness.

│ │ └── rule_executor.py \# Executes rules on tasks based on matching
conditions.

│ ├── escalations/

│ │ ├── escalation_rules.py \# Defines escalation conditions and
thresholds.

│ │ └── escalation_handler.py \# Handles task escalations and
notifications.

│ └── workflow_manager.py \# Orchestrates workflows and task routing.

├── database/

│ ├── connectors/

│ │ ├── postgres_connector.py \# Manages PostgreSQL connections.

│ │ └── sqlite_connector.py \# Manages SQLite connections for offline
operations.

│ ├── schema_initializer.py \# Initializes database schema.

│ └── operations.py \# Performs CRUD operations and queries.

├── logging/

│ ├── activity_logger.py \# Logs workflow and task actions.

│ ├── error_logger.py \# Logs system errors for debugging.

│ └── security_logger.py \# Logs security-related events.

└── task/

├── scheduler.py \# Handles scheduling of tasks.

├── executor.py \# Executes tasks and updates statuses.

└── notifier.py \# Sends notifications related to tasks.

/config/

├── organizations/

│ ├── default_config.yaml \# Default settings for workflows and rules.

│ ├── school_config.yaml \# Configuration tailored for schools.

│ ├── hospital_config.yaml \# Configuration tailored for hospitals.

│ ├── corporate_config.yaml \# Configuration tailored for corporate
entities.

│ └── small_community_config.yaml \# Configuration for small community
organizations.

├── workflows/

│ ├── workflow_rules.yaml \# Centralized routing and escalation rules.

│ ├── escalation_policies.yaml \# Centralized escalation policies.

│ └── anonymization_rules.yaml \# Rules for anonymizing sensitive data.

├── logging/

│ ├── logging_config.yaml \# General logging configurations.

│ ├── activity_log_settings.yaml \# Activity logging configurations.

│ ├── error_log_settings.yaml \# Error logging configurations.

│ └── security_log_settings.yaml \# Security logging configurations.

├── email/

│ ├── email_config.yaml \# Email server configurations.

│ ├── smtp_settings.yaml \# SMTP configurations.

│ └── imap_settings.yaml \# IMAP configurations.

├── database/

│ ├── db_config.yaml \# Database connection settings.

│ ├── postgres_settings.yaml \# PostgreSQL-specific configurations.

│ └── sqlite_settings.yaml \# SQLite configurations for offline use.

├── system/

│ ├── general_settings.yaml \# General system settings (e.g., timezone,
language).

│ ├── retention_policies.yaml \# Log retention policies.

│ └── notification_settings.yaml \# Notification preferences (email/SMS
templates).

/domain_modules/

├── maintenance/

│ ├── tasks/

│ │ ├── plumbing_tasks.py

│ │ ├── electrical_tasks.py

│ │ ├── general_tasks.py

│ │ └── maintenance_task_manager.py

│ ├── templates/

│ │ ├── maintenance_email.html

│ │ ├── report_template.html

│ └── rules/

│ └── maintenance_rules.yaml

├── hr/

│ ├── tasks/

│ │ ├── harassment_tasks.py

│ │ ├── recruitment_tasks.py

│ │ └── hr_task_manager.py

│ ├── templates/

│ │ ├── harassment_report.html

│ │ ├── recruitment_email.html

│ │ └── performance_review.html

│ └── rules/

│ └── hr_rules.yaml

└── education/

├── tasks/

│ ├── student_incident_tasks.py

│ ├── teacher_feedback_tasks.py

│ └── education_task_manager.py

├── templates/

│ ├── incident_report.html

│ ├── feedback_form.html

│ └── parent_notification.html

└── rules/

└── education_rules.yaml

/interfaces/

├── api/

│ ├── endpoints/

│ │ ├── email_endpoints.py

│ │ ├── workflow_endpoints.py

│ │ ├── task_endpoints.py

│ │ └── admin_endpoints.py

│ ├── serializers/

│ │ ├── email_serializer.py

│ │ ├── workflow_serializer.py

│ │ ├── task_serializer.py

│ │ └── admin_serializer.py

│ ├── auth/

│ │ ├── token_manager.py

│ │ └── role_validator.py

├── admin/

│ ├── dashboard/

│ │ ├── templates/

│ │ │ ├── dashboard.html

│ │ │ ├── escalation_tracker.html

│ │ │ ├── rule_editor.html

│ │ │ └── log_retention.html

│ │ ├── controllers/

│ │ │ ├── task_controller.py

│ │ │ ├── workflow_controller.py

│ │ │ └── logging_controller.py

│ │ ├── static/

│ │ │ ├── admin_dashboard_styles.css

│ │ │ ├── admin_dashboard_scripts.js

│ │ │ └── icons/

│ │ └── settings.py

├── web/

│ ├── web_client.py

│ ├── templates/

│ │ ├── login.html

│ │ ├── notification_center.html

│ │ └── user_profile.html

│ ├── static/

│ │ ├── web_client_styles.css

│ │ ├── web_client_scripts.js

│ │ └── images/

│ │ └── logo.png

└── notifications/

├── email_notifier.py

├── sms_notifier.py

└── notification_manager.py

/tests/

├── unit/

│ ├── email/

│ │ ├── test_subject_parser.py

│ │ ├── test_body_parser.py

│ │ ├── test_metadata_extractor.py

│ │ └── test_attachment_handler.py

│ ├── workflow/

│ │ ├── test_rule_loader.py

│ │ ├── test_rule_validator.py

│ │ ├── test_rule_executor.py

│ │ └── test_escalation_handler.py

│ ├── task/

│ │ ├── test_scheduler.py

│ │ ├── test_executor.py

│ │ └── test_notifier.py

│ ├── database/

│ │ ├── test_postgres_connector.py

│ │ ├── test_sqlite_connector.py

│ │ └── test_operations.py

│ └── logging/

│ ├── test_activity_logger.py

│ ├── test_error_logger.py

│ └── test_security_logger.py

├── integration/

│ ├── test_email_to_workflow.py

│ ├── test_task_to_escalation.py

│ ├── test_task_lifecycle.py

│ └── test_database_sync.py

├── performance/

│ ├── test_redis_cache.py

│ ├── test_rabbitmq_queues.py

│ ├── test_email_handling.py

│ └── test_bulk_workflows.py

└── security/

├── test_rbac.py

├── test_data_anonymization.py

├── test_access_control.py

└── test_authentication.py

/logs/

├── workflow/

│ ├── workflow_activity.log \# Logs workflow actions and events.

│ ├── escalation_tracker.log \# Logs task escalations and timelines.

│ └── workflow_performance.log \# Logs performance metrics for
workflows.

├── tasks/

│ ├── task_execution.log \# Logs task execution details.

│ ├── task_notifications.log \# Logs notifications sent for tasks.

│ └── overdue_tasks.log \# Tracks overdue tasks and escalations.

├── system/

│ ├── system_activity.log \# Logs general system activity.

│ ├── deployment_actions.log \# Logs deployment and update actions.

│ └── performance_monitor.log \# Logs system resource usage metrics.

├── security/

│ ├── access_control.log \# Tracks login attempts and role violations.

│ ├── data_anonymization.log \# Logs anonymization actions for sensitive
workflows.

│ └── alerts.log \# Logs security alerts and intrusion attempts.

├── email/

│ ├── email_incoming.log \# Logs metadata for incoming emails.

│ ├── email_outgoing.log \# Logs metadata for outgoing emails.

│ └── email_errors.log \# Tracks errors during email handling.

└── retention_policies/

├── logs_retention_policy.yaml \# Centralized log retention policies.

└── compliance_checklist.yaml \# Ensures compliance with data
regulations.

/backup/

├── scripts/

│ ├── full_backup.py \# Creates full system backups.

│ ├── incremental_backup.py \# Handles incremental backups.

│ ├── scheduled_backup.sh \# Script to schedule backups using cron.

│ └── verify_backup.py \# Validates backup integrity.

├── recovery/

│ ├── restore_from_backup.py \# Restores system from backups.

│ ├── conflict_resolver.py \# Resolves conflicts during restoration.

│ └── recovery_logs.log \# Logs recovery actions and outcomes.

└── logs/

├── backup_log.log \# Logs backup activities.

└── recovery_log.log \# Tracks recovery operations.

/monitoring/

├── health_checks/

│ ├── email_server_check.py \# Verifies email server connectivity.

│ ├── database_health_check.py \# Monitors database availability and
health.

│ ├── queue_health_check.py \# Checks Redis and RabbitMQ queues.

│ └── system_health_check.py \# General system health monitoring.

├── performance_metrics/

│ ├── redis_metrics.py \# Tracks Redis performance and cache hits.

│ ├── rabbitmq_metrics.py \# Monitors RabbitMQ queue length and latency.

│ ├── cpu_usage.py \# Tracks CPU utilization.

│ ├── memory_usage.py \# Tracks memory usage.

│ └── disk_usage.py \# Monitors disk space and I/O.

└── alerts/

├── alert_rules.yaml \# Defines alert thresholds and conditions.

├── email_alerts.py \# Sends alerts via email.

├── sms_alerts.py \# Sends alerts via SMS.

└── alert_logs.log \# Logs triggered alerts.

/templates/

├── email/

│ ├── task_notification.html \# Template for task notifications.

│ ├── escalation_notice.html \# Template for escalation notices.

│ ├── maintenance_request.html \# Template for maintenance requests.

│ ├── harassment_report.html \# Template for sensitive HR reports.

│ └── incident_alert.html \# Template for incident alerts.

├── reports/

│ ├── maintenance_summary.html \# Template for maintenance task
summaries.

│ ├── performance_review.html \# Template for employee performance
reviews.

│ ├── incident_report.html \# Template for incident reporting.

│ └── feedback_summary.html \# Template for summarizing user feedback.

├── dashboards/

│ ├── admin_dashboard.html \# Template for the admin dashboard.

│ ├── escalation_tracker.html \# Dashboard for tracking escalations.

│ ├── workflow_editor.html \# Template for workflow editing.

│ └── analytics_overview.html \# Template for performance analytics.

├── notifications/

│ ├── success_message.html \# Template for success notifications.

│ ├── error_message.html \# Template for error notifications.

│ └── escalation_reminder.html \# Template for escalation reminders.

└── forms/

├── login_form.html \# Template for login forms.

├── registration_form.html \# Template for user registration.

├── feedback_form.html \# Template for collecting feedback.

└── report_issue_form.html \# Template for reporting issues.

Here's a more technical and machine-friendly annex to enhance the **use
of the Orgo v2 file system for programming**. This document is intended
to help developers and AI systems interact effectively with the file
structure by clarifying its architecture, relationships, and
implementation principles.

# **Technical Annex: Programming Guidelines for Orgo v2 File Structure**

This document provides technical details and programming-focused
insights for interacting with the **Orgo v2 General File Structure**. It
is designed to ensure that AI systems and developers understand how to
leverage the file system to build, extend, and maintain the platform
effectively.

## **1. Programming Purpose of Each Directory**

### **/core_services/**

-   **Purpose**: Provides reusable components that execute fundamental
    operations such as parsing, rule application, database interactions,
    task scheduling, and logging.

-   **Programming Notes**:

    -   Modules must be stateless where possible to support scalability.

    -   All services depend on external configurations from /config/ and
        integrate with logs in /logs/.

    -   Each service exposes standardized functions or classes (e.g.,
        TaskScheduler, DatabaseConnector) for predictable interaction.

### **/config/**

-   **Purpose**: Centralizes dynamic configurations that define
    workflows, logging behavior, database connections, and
    organization-specific rules.

-   **Programming Notes**:

    -   Configuration files are expected in YAML or JSON format.

    -   Standard keys (e.g., escalation_policies, notification_settings)
        must be used across all configuration files to ensure
        interoperability.

    -   When adding new configurations, ensure backward compatibility by
        including defaults in default_config.yaml.

### **/domain_modules/**

-   **Purpose**: Encapsulates workflows, task definitions, templates,
    and rules tailored to specific domains such as maintenance, HR, or
    education.

-   **Programming Notes**:

    -   Follow a strict file naming convention (e.g.,
        \<domain_name\>\_tasks.py, \<domain_name\>\_rules.yaml) to
        maintain consistency.

    -   Modules must adhere to the input/output schema defined by
        /core_services/ for seamless integration.

    -   Templates should use placeholders for dynamic values, compatible
        with the template engine configured in /interfaces/.

### **/interfaces/**

-   **Purpose**: Manages user-facing operations, including API
    endpoints, dashboards, and notifications.

-   **Programming Notes**:

    -   API endpoints in /interfaces/api/ must follow REST principles
        and use a consistent naming pattern (e.g., get\_\<resource\>,
        update\_\<resource\>).

    -   All user-facing templates in /interfaces/web/templates/ should
        reference shared styles and scripts from /interfaces/web/static/
        for consistency.

    -   Notifications rely on preferences defined in
        /config/organizations/, so changes to notification logic should
        account for these configurations.

### **/logs/**

-   **Purpose**: Captures structured logs for workflows, tasks, system
    activity, and security events.

-   **Programming Notes**:

    -   Use a uniform logging format (e.g., JSON with keys like
        timestamp, level, message, module) for all log entries.

    -   Implement role-based access controls (RBAC) when accessing
        sensitive logs like security/access_control.log.

    -   Ensure logs comply with retention policies defined in
        /config/logging/.

### **/infrastructure/**

-   **Purpose**: Supports deployment, monitoring, backups,
    synchronization, and system scalability.

-   **Programming Notes**:

    -   Deployment scripts (e.g., docker-compose.yaml, setup.py) must
        reference environment-specific configurations in /config/.

    -   Monitoring tools in /infrastructure/monitoring/ should interact
        with logs in /logs/ and external visualization systems (e.g.,
        Prometheus).

    -   Synchronization scripts must resolve conflicts programmatically
        using timestamp-based reconciliation.

### **/tests/**

-   **Purpose**: Ensures functionality, reliability, and performance
    through comprehensive testing.

-   **Programming Notes**:

    -   Unit tests in /tests/unit/ must mock dependencies to isolate
        logic.

    -   Integration tests in /tests/integration/ must validate
        cross-module interactions.

    -   Performance tests in /tests/performance/ should simulate
        high-load scenarios using Redis and RabbitMQ.

## **2. Interaction Principles**

### **Centralized Configuration Usage**

All modules must query /config/ for dynamic settings:

-   Use loaders (e.g., yaml.safe_load) to read configurations into
    objects or dictionaries.

-   Example: A workflow task may load its routing rules dynamically:

> import yaml
>
> with open(\'/config/workflows/workflow_rules.yaml\', \'r\') as file:
>
> rules = yaml.safe_load(file)

### **Module Integration**

Modules must use clearly defined interfaces to communicate:

-   Core services provide reusable APIs (e.g.,
    DatabaseConnector.query()).

-   Domain modules invoke these APIs and transform their outputs to
    user-facing formats.

### **Template Standardization**

Templates in /domain_modules/templates/ and /interfaces/web/templates/
must follow a shared syntax for placeholders to ensure compatibility
with the rendering engine:

-   Use double curly braces for placeholders (e.g., {{ variable_name
    }}).

## **3. Programming Practices for Scalability**

### **Task Queues**

-   Use Redis for caching and RabbitMQ for task queues, integrating them
    into /core_services/task/.

-   Ensure message durability and acknowledgment to handle high-load
    scenarios.

### **Stateless Design**

-   All workflows and tasks should rely on database state rather than
    maintaining in-memory state for scalability in distributed
    environments.

### **Offline Support**

-   Implement offline synchronization logic in /infrastructure/scripts/
    to ensure seamless operations during network outages:

    -   Reconcile SQLite and PostgreSQL data using timestamp comparison.

## **4. Implementation Constraints**

1.  **File Naming Conventions**

    -   Ensure unique, descriptive file names (e.g.,
        workflow_manager.py, notification_settings.yaml) to avoid
        conflicts.

2.  **Directory Depth**

    -   Keep directories shallow and modular to maintain clarity and
        facilitate navigation.

3.  **Backward Compatibility**

    -   Changes to configuration keys or module interfaces must preserve
        compatibility with existing workflows.

4.  **Security Enforcement**

    -   Sensitive operations (e.g., logging, data synchronization) must
        validate user roles and permissions dynamically.

## **5. Dynamic Adaptability**

The file system is designed to adapt dynamically to new requirements:

-   **Adding New Domain Modules**:

    -   Create a new directory in /domain_modules/ with the same
        structure as existing modules.

    -   Reference shared rules and templates from /config/ and
        /templates/ for consistency.

-   **Extending Workflows**:

    -   Add new rules to /config/workflows/workflow_rules.yaml.

    -   Update loaders in /core_services/workflow/ to handle new
        conditions dynamically.

## **6. Error Handling and Debugging**

-   **Error Logging**:

    -   Use /logs/system/ for capturing unexpected errors across all
        modules.

    -   Tag log entries with identifiers (e.g., module_name) to
        facilitate debugging.

-   **Testing Coverage**:

    -   Ensure every module has corresponding unit and integration tests
        in /tests/.

## **Conclusion**

This annex provides a detailed, programming-friendly guide to the **Orgo
v2 file system**, ensuring its elements are usable and extensible by AI
systems and developers. By adhering to these principles, the system will
remain robust, scalable, and adaptable to evolving requirements.
