Pre-Configured parameters for Profiles for Orgo

1\. Friend Group

Reactivity Time: Relaxed (low urgency, escalation after several days or
weeks).

Transparency: Fully transparent (everyone in the group is notified about
updates).

Escalation Granularity: Detailed (all intermediate levels are involved
in escalation).

Review Frequency: Rare (annual or ad-hoc reviews).

Notification Scope: Small team (only relevant members notified).

Pattern Sensitivity: Low (patterns are flagged only after extended
periods).

Severity Escalation Threshold: Very high (only severe issues escalate
immediately).

Logging and Traceability: Minimal (logs only high-level actions).

Automation Level: Manual (most actions require human input).

Data Retention Policy: Short-term (records are retained for 3--6
months).

\-\--

2\. Hospital

Reactivity Time: Immediate (critical issues escalate within minutes).

Transparency: Moderately private (information visible to key teams
only).

Escalation Granularity: Accelerated (skips some intermediate levels to
ensure rapid response).

Review Frequency: Continuous (daily or real-time reviews).

Notification Scope: Small team (only relevant staff notified to avoid
alert fatigue).

Pattern Sensitivity: High (patterns flagged after a few similar
incidents).

Severity Escalation Threshold: Low (minor issues escalate quickly).

Logging and Traceability: Audit-ready (includes compliance tags and
timestamps).

Automation Level: High automation (automates routing, reviews, and
escalation).

Data Retention Policy: Long-term (records are stored for up to 10
years).

\-\--

3\. Advocacy Group

Reactivity Time: Responsive (escalation within 12--24 hours).

Transparency: Moderately transparent (relevant teams are informed widely
to encourage collaboration).

Escalation Granularity: Moderate (key intermediate levels involved).

Review Frequency: Frequent (weekly reviews to track ongoing campaigns).

Notification Scope: Departmental (relevant departments or teams
notified).

Pattern Sensitivity: Balanced (patterns flagged within a few weeks).

Severity Escalation Threshold: Balanced (moderate issues escalate
quickly).

Logging and Traceability: Moderate (key actions and updates are logged).

Automation Level: Moderate automation (automates key processes like
notifications and reports).

Data Retention Policy: Moderate (records retained for 1--5 years).

\-\--

4\. Retail Chain

Reactivity Time: Moderate (escalation within 24--72 hours).

Transparency: Balanced (visible to relevant teams and managers).

Escalation Granularity: Moderate (key intermediate levels involved in
escalation).

Review Frequency: Moderate (monthly reviews to track operational
efficiency).

Notification Scope: Departmental (store-level teams and regional
managers notified).

Pattern Sensitivity: Moderate (patterns flagged after repeated incidents
over weeks).

Severity Escalation Threshold: High (only severe operational issues
escalate immediately).

Logging and Traceability: Moderate (records key actions and decisions).

Automation Level: Moderate automation (automates notifications and
routine reports).

Data Retention Policy: Moderate (records stored for up to 5 years).

\-\--

5\. Military Organization

Reactivity Time: Immediate (escalation within minutes for critical
issues).

Transparency: Highly private (information visible only to direct
recipients and leadership).

Escalation Granularity: Broad (skips intermediate levels to reach higher
authorities quickly).

Review Frequency: Continuous (daily reviews for operational and
strategic updates).

Notification Scope: Small team (only direct recipients notified to
maintain security).

Pattern Sensitivity: Immediate (patterns flagged after 1--2 similar
incidents).

Severity Escalation Threshold: No threshold (all issues escalate quickly
by default).

Logging and Traceability: Full traceability (logs every action,
decision, and metadata).

Automation Level: Fully automated (end-to-end automation for critical
workflows).

Data Retention Policy: Indefinite (records stored until manually deleted
or as per legal requirements).

\-\--

6\. Environmental Group

Reactivity Time: Responsive (escalation within 12--24 hours).

Transparency: Moderately transparent (issues visible to relevant
stakeholders and teams).

Escalation Granularity: Moderate (key intermediate levels involved in
escalation).

Review Frequency: Frequent (weekly or bi-weekly reviews to monitor
campaign progress).

Notification Scope: Organization-wide (broad notifications to volunteers
and staff).

Pattern Sensitivity: High (patterns flagged after a few similar
incidents in a short period).

Severity Escalation Threshold: Balanced (moderate issues escalate
appropriately).

Logging and Traceability: Moderate (key actions logged for
accountability).

Automation Level: Moderate automation (automates task delegation and
follow-ups).

Data Retention Policy: Moderate (records stored for up to 5 years).

\-\--

7\. Artist Collective

Reactivity Time: Relaxed (escalation after days or weeks).

Transparency: Balanced (issues shared within the group for
accountability).

Escalation Granularity: Detailed (escalates through all levels
methodically).

Review Frequency: Occasional (quarterly reviews for resource-sharing and
project updates).

Notification Scope: Departmental (relevant project teams notified).

Pattern Sensitivity: Low (patterns flagged only after extended periods).

Severity Escalation Threshold: High (only major issues escalate).

Logging and Traceability: Minimal (logs only major actions like resource
requests).

Automation Level: Low automation (focuses on human-driven workflows).

Data Retention Policy: Short-term (records stored for 3--6 months).

\-\--

These pre-configured profiles are starting points that organizations can
further fine-tune to their specific needs using the adjustable
parameters. ?
